---
layout: course
category: courses
title: 'Swedish'
date: 2017-07-08 00:20
tags:   [new]
TutorName: Carolyn Spargo
TargetGroup: 7th – 10th Grades
ClassSizeLimit:  no minimumPrerequisite:  noneClassType: Full Year
---

### Class Description:This class is a combination of conversational Swedish and grammar. 

The vocabulary learned incorporates everyday words and sentences so the student can engage in immediate conversation. The Swedish culture has always been a part of the instructor's life and will be incorporated into every aspect of her class. She is the child of an immigrant whose father came from the western province of Dalarna, Sweden. As a youth, she studied the Swedish language at the American Swedish Institute and continued at the University of Minnesota and with an intense language summer session at the University of Uppsala, Sweden. Carolyn has taught Swedish at Concordia Language Village Adult programming from 1999 to present as well as to home school groups, community education, and private individuals. While living in the area, she founded the Swedish children's day camp in Scandia. From 1996 to 1998, she, along with her husband and family resided in Sweden.

### Texts:
From English to Swedish 1: A basic Swedish textbook for English speaking students (Volume 1) by Bengt Hällgren and Carol Hällgren**ISBN-13: 978-1512188561** - **ISBN-10: 1512188565** ($15 on Amazon)Total Due: $210.00 per semesterPayment due with Registration per semester – paid in full per semester at the time of registration