---
layout: course
category: 'english'
sub-category: 'english-literature'
title: 'Book Club'
date: 2017-07-11
TutorName: 'Linda López'
TargetGroup: 9th – 12th Grades
ClassSizeLimit: 5 students minimum; 10 maximum
Prerequisite: None
ClassType: Full Year
---
New students may enter mid-year if space is available.

### Class Description:
This course is a short story and book discussion
class for high school students. It functions on two levels.
Parents/student can choose between (1) a basic book club or (2) an
enhanced class with additional projects and writing assignments for a
literature/composition credit. Students who take this option will need
to add 1-2 hours per week to complete the weekly writing assignment.
Students will read two-four books per month (about 250 pages per week).

The class is reading intensive and students should set aside 4- 6 hours
per week to reading the selections. Students are expected to always come
to class with the selection read and questions prepared to aid in
discussion.

In the spirit of a true book club, each student will have the
opportunity to choose at least one book each semester for the class to
discuss.



### Texts
Actual book selections will depend on the students who enroll and their
interest.

Examples of past student choices include: Phantom of the Opera, by
Gaston LeRoux, The Man who was Thursday, by G.K. Chesterton; Tuck
Everlasting, by Natalie Babbitt; Fahrenheit 451, by Ray Bradbury; The
Metamorphosis by Franz Kafka; The Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr.
Hyde by Robert Louis Stevenson; The Eagle of the Ninth by Rosemary
Sutcliff; The Hobbit by JRR Tolkien; The Old Man and the Sea by Ernest
Hemingway; The Yearling by Marjorie Kinnan Rawlings; The Help by Kathryn
Stockett; Little Britches: Father and I Were Ranchers by Ralph Moody;
Killing Lincoln by Bill O'Reilly; The Hero and the Crown by Robin
McKinley; The Count of Monte Cristo by Alexandre Dumas. Screwtape
Letters by C.S. Lewis; Eragon by Christopher Paolini

### Total Due
*	$190.00 per semester
*	Students will be responsible for finding or purchasing the
actual literature.
*	Due with Registration per semester – paid in full per semester
at the time of registration

### Payable to
Linda López