---
layout: course
category: 'psychology'
title: 'Applied Psychology'
date: 2017-07-12
tags: [book-required]
TutorName: 'Dr. Kathleen Chara'
TargetGroup: 9th – 12th Grades
ClassSizeLimit: TBD
Prerequisite: None
ClassType: Fall semester only
---

### Class Description:
This year long course will apply the principles of psychology to relationships in general. Students will look in six relational directions. They will look behind to their past, look ahead to college, look around to know a hurting world and negative influences of peers, look to their future to know how to be a responsible professional/parent, look beside to attract a functional mate, and look within and above to their relationship with God.

In addition, students will be more prepared for the future:
 For college–by being familiarized with college class format, structure, expectations, and writing both reaction and research papers for college.   Students will be assigned grades according to high school standards.
 
For dealing with issues–by studying Christian information regarding God’s commands on premarital sex, pornography, abortion and other addictions are discussed.

For relationships–relational skills of communication, problem solving stress management and financial budgeting will be explored and practiced in class.

For understanding their family–students will also complete a  Family Genogram the second semester.

### Texts
White, James E. (2001). Life Defining Moments. Colorado Springs, CO: Water Brook  (Text may be difficult to find–try Abebooks.com.  Watch this site for updates as they become available)

### Total Due
*     $200 per semester
*     Due in full at time of registration.

### Payable to
Dr. Kathleen Chara