---
layout: course
category: 'arts'
sub-category: 'art-dramatic'
title: 'Acting Level I (Acting Tools)'
date: 2017-07-11
TutorName: 'Joy Carlson, CB Productions Teaching Artist'
TargetGroup:  7th – 12th grades (must be 12 years old by September 1, 2017)
ClassSizeLimit: 16 maximum
Prerequisite: "None, Note: Must complete Level I before auditioning for a CB Productions main-stage play"
ClassType: Full Year
---

### Class Description:
This is an extremely fun, high energy, and informative acting class that sets the groundwork for all other acting courses and stage work. Students will gain hands-on experience improving their acting skills while learning these important stage tools or techniques: how to enter, exit, cross, turn, gesture onstage, how to use your entire body to effectively communicate your character’s intentions, how to create effective and smooth transitions and believable stage business, and how to react spontaneously by listening, observing, focusing and reacting truthfully to what is happening.

 The first semester, students will spend a concentrated time studying these techniques by actively participating in focused theatre games and beginning level improvised scene-work. The second semester we will explore small group scenes using both improvisational and text-driven material. Most of the student’s work will be done in class; however students will be expected to work on scenes at home, do small amounts of research and of course actively participate. All of our classes are taught in a creative, supportive and non-competitive atmosphere and is designed for the student with or without stage experience. Each session will culminate in a showcase performed for parents and friends on the last day of class.

### Total Due
* $200.00 per semester
* Payment due with Registration per semester – paid in full per semester at the time of registration.

### Payable to
CB Productions