---
layout: course
category: 'arts'
sub-category: 'art-studio'
title: '2D Design'
date: 2017-07-11
tags: [AP]
TutorName: 'Cher Baumhoefner'
TargetGroup: 9th – 12th Grades
Prerequisite: "Open to approved students in 10th-12th grades"
ClassType: Full Year
---

This course will run concurrent with CSP PSEO ART 101: Approaching Art. 
AP students must be in 10th-12th grades; eligible students are encouraged to register for CSP PSEO if possible. 
Priority will be given to PSEO students and AP as space allows.

### Instructor approval; see notes below

Students need to have a good “eye” for design and its basic elements: line, color, shape, texture and perspective.

Students do not need to be “good” at drawing, painting, etc. as we will work with a variety of mediums.

Students must either be invited or approved by the instructor (Cher Baumhoefner) based on previous work with me or by recommendation of Mrs. Hall, AP Drawing instructor, based on work with her.
For new students (not having worked with either AP studio art instructor), two options are available:

Students may bring samples of their art work and meet with Mrs. Baumhoefner either prior to – or at the Open House.

All students who are providing new work for the instructor must print and complete a drawing on the architectural draft graph paper provided on the link below for evaluation.

Click HERE for Design prerequisite (PQ) form for a copy of the architectural draft graph paper.

Print out as many copies of the Design PQ form as you wish.

Examine the graph paper, turning it around to view it from all sides/angles until you arrive at one side on which you can envision a “picture” of some sort.  There is no right or wrong way; there is no top or bottom.

**NOTE:** the Design PQ form may appear to already be a completed drawing, but it is actually an architectural graph paper that you will draw something on top of. The lines will show through your drawing; that is OK.

This “picture” that you visualize and draw on top of these grid lines can be of an interior (inside of a room) or an exterior (outside of a building), it can be realistic (i.e. be a recognizable object) or abstract or simply made up of designs using the perspective lines already in place to create interesting shapes), it can be very detailed or very simplistic; “what” it is not important, rather that you are sharing with me what you “see” on the skeletal form of the graph paper.

Draw the “picture” that you “see” or visualize on top of or incorporating the graph paper with pencil first; it can be a simple line drawing or use shading.  It can be completed with pen and ink, black or colored markers, highlighters, colored pencils or left simply as a pencil drawing.
Renditions will NOT be evaluated on your drawing ability, but rather how and what and that you are able to visualize something on this piece of paper.

You can create and submit as many variations as you like.
Submit them to Mrs. Baumhoefner by one of two methods:

Scan a PDF form to  [Cher Baumhoefner](mailto:cherb@mtn.org) – please address Subject Line with “AP Design PQ” with your full name and contact information clearly stated on the main body of the note.
    Mail them to: Cher Baumhoefner, 5532 St. Stephen Street, St. Paul, MN 55112

Mrs. Baumhoefner will reply to you within 24 hours of her receipt of your submissions.

Submissions will be accepted up until the class begins or until the course is full ( maximum of 12 students will be accepted).

Questions on course or arranging to view work samples? Contact: [Cher Baumhoefner](mailto:cherb@mtn.org)
Questions on AP: [Contact AP Coordinator](mailto:ouryeahservices@gmail.com) – note AP DESIGN in Subject line of Email.

### Course Description
This studio art design course is intended to address two-dimensional (2-D) design issues. Design involves purposeful decision making about how to use the elements of design making about how to use the elements and principles of art in an integrative way. The principles of design (unity/variety, balance, emphasis, contrast, rhythm, repetition, proportion/scale, figure/ground relationships), articulated through the visual elements (line, shape, color, value, texture, space), help guide artists in making decisions about how to organize the elements in a picture plane in order to communicate content.  Effective design is possible whether one uses representational or abstract approaches to art.

For this portfolio, students are asked to demonstrate mastery of 2-D design through any two-dimensional medium or process, including, but not limited to, graphic design, digital imaging, photography, collage, fabric design, weaving, illustration, painting, and printmaking.
The portfolio will include 5 original works of art that  demonstrate the mastery of design in concept, composition and execution. Each piece will have with detailed description and dimensions. Students will also submit 12 digital examples that show the understanding of Concentration, and 12 examples of  Breadth, as part of your final portfolio.

### Texts:
Materials are the responsibility of the student, all of which will be an essential part of their personal studio arts materials and resources after they have completed the course. A limited number of texts are available for rent, first come, first served.

A text will not be included for this course, but handouts will be included for student learning tools.  Students must provide their own 3 ring binder notebook for 8.5 x 11 paper, with clear sleeve protectors to store their weekly assignments. Portfolios will be needed for the final projects to be submitted to AP for grading; details on these will be posted as available.

### Total Due:

$210.00 per semester provides:

* Portfolio submission costs are separate and are the responsibility of the student
* College level  instruction by an AP approved instructor
* Special guidance in creating and submitting a portfolio to the AP college board for review and grading
* The option of AP designation on their high school transcript
* Possibility of earning college credit for work submitted in their portfolio, depending on the quality of the portfolio
* Handouts of printed course materials compiled by the instructor
* Payment due with Registration per semester – paid in full per semester at the time of registration

### Payable to:
Charamana Studios