---
layout: course
category: 'languages'
sub-category: 'languages-modern'
title: 'Chinese II'
date: 2017-07-10
tags: [book-required]
TutorName: 'Phyllis Smith'
TargetGroup: 9th – 12th Grades
ClassSizeLimit: 6 minimum
Prerequisite: None
ClassType: Full Year
---### Class Description:**NOTE: Chinese I will not be offered for 2017-18**

Class Description: This is a beginner's level course for Mandarin Chinese and is designed for students with little or no previous experience.  It will focus on listening, speaking, reading and later in writing skills by using the Pinyin system.  Students will learn basic grammar through sentence patterns.   There will be a significant amount of in-class interaction with role playing, games, conversations and projects.  Also some home exercises from textbooks, practice notebooks, internet resources, and various apps will enhance the learning experience.  Upon completion of the course, if they study hard for it, students will be able to communicate in simple everyday Chinese conversation for the topics studied.### Texts:*	Integrated Chinese Level 1. Part 1 Textbook Simplified Characters 3rd edition **(ISBN: 9780887276385)*** You may get a used copy, but make sure it's the 3rd edition*	Integrated Chinese Level 1 Part 1 Workbook: Simplified Characters 3rd Edition  **(ISBN-13: 978-0887276408    ISBN-10: 0887276407)**### Total Due:*	$210.00 per semester*	Includes tutor provided course related handouts. *	See list above for text to be supplied by the student. *	Due with Registration per semester – paid in full per semester at the time of registration.### Payable to:
Phyllis Smith